FatStax API
====================

This is the API for the FatStax web application (fatstaxapp.com).

The Fatstax API is implemented using XML over HTTP, following [RESTful](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Representational_state_transfer) (GET/POST/PUT/DELETE) principles as much as possible. Each resource, like Import and Database, each have their own URL and are manipulated in isolation.


Authentication
--------------

There are two forms of authentication available:

* [Basic Authentication](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Basic_access_authentication)
* [Token Authentication](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/1592534/what-is-token-based-authentication)

In both cases, the header information with the username and password are encrypted as all API calls made to the FatStax web application are sent through HTTPS encrypted connections.

To access the site, enter your email address as the username and the API token as the password.

Your API token can be generated by your system administrator or FatStax account representative. Once generated, you can view it by clicking on the "My Profile" link in the upper-right under your name, and then clicking the "Show Authentication Token" on the left.

Note: These tokens can be regenerated and or revoked by an administrator at any time.


Making a request
---------------

Be sure to set both the 'Content-Type' and 'Accept' headers to 'application/xml' to identify the request and response format. Here is an example using Curl form the command line:

    curl -H 'Accept: application/xml' -H 'Content-Type: application/xml' \
      -u example@fatstaxapp.com:c984134d6558c1e2bf22a0b35596d3dd6ba68a10 \
    https://URL/api/v1/imports.xml

Your URL is determined by your catalog's subdomain and the server you use for administration. For most FatStax customers this would subdomain.fatstaxapp.com.

API Endpoints
-------------

* [Import](https://github.com/RedFunnel/fatstax-api/blob/master/sections/import.md)
* [Published Database](https://github.com/RedFunnel/fatstax-api/blob/master/sections/published_database.md)
* [Staged Database](https://github.com/RedFunnel/fatstax-api/blob/master/sections/staged_database.md)

See our [Data Reference](https://github.com/RedFunnel/fatstax-api/blob/master/sections/data_reference.md) for examples of how each XML object will look.

Responses
---------

A successful response will return a status code in the 200 range, and in many cases an XML response. If a request causes a new record to be created (PUT), the response will be sent with a "201 Created" status code. Delete requests will return a "204 No Content" status code. Other succesful requests will return a 200 status code.

If an object no longer exists it will return a "404 Not Found" status code.

Rate limiting
-------------
You can perform up to 60 requests per minute from the same IP address for the same account. If you exceed this limit, you'll get a 403 Forbidden (Rate Limit Exceeded) response for subsequent requests.


Documentation Conventions
-------------------------

To make things easier to understand, the following notation is used:

* `#{text}`: Indicates text that should be replaced by your own data, or will be by the application
* `...`: Indicates content from the response has been elided for brevity in documentation. See the list of data responses at the end of the page for a full description of the format of that response type.
